# Integrating-R-Hadoop-Sentiment-Analysis
The increased usage of social media with blogging services’ and those of easy-to-use features provided on internet have considerably changed the people’s lives with a lot more people expressing the thoughts, the various opinions, and they always require support on social media as well as highly connected environments. A indepth research on social media statistics beneficial to business discovered that more than 80% of the prople online on the internet are using any sort of social media website and on the average 23% of the time of the people active on internet is spent on social networking sites. Precisely, the study has found out 64% of Twitter and that of 51% of Facebook users are found buying the product which they are following on the social media sites.The main objective of this research is to find out and implementation of various techniques through a Big Data system which will build for specific reasons, in order to process classifiers on the tweets and also draw a comparison amongst them. In this project an opinion mining on tweets which mention Donal Trump, US Presidential Elections, etc. will be performed in order to find how many people are the followers of Donald Trump and how many aren’t. At first, the tweets which contain keywords related to 'USA president Donald Trump’ are crawled, pre-processed and cleaned using various tools such as Hadoop, Flume and R. An important process of labeling and pre-processing data by using the trained models in order to classify the various tweets into positive or negative is followed in this research. Two duplicates of similar informational collection are made keeping in mind the end goal to have the prepare and test datasets to have the capacity to apply information mining calculations and representation of the discoveries utilizing diagrams to figure out what level of Donald Trump supporters are there on Twitter and what level of Donald Trump non-supporters are there. The grouped tweets give us the data of what number of tweets is ordered under positive and negative, henceforth give a thought of what percent of tweets are pro TRUMP and what number of percent tweets have negative perspectives towards TRUMP. This makes a very nice addition to the existing analysis on the various twitter trends on Donald Trump as well as U.S Elections. 

Keywords: HDFS, Flume, Twitter API, Hive, Sentiment Analysis, Hadoop, SVM, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes’, Big Data, Machine Learning.
